questions 3:

1. Explain Dependency Injection. 

2. What are SOLID Principal Explain L in this. 

3. Explain Garbage collector. 

4. How you do logging. 

5. Explain Service Lifecycle in Dot net Core(Transient, Scoped and Singleton) give practical example of each where they are used. 

6. What are delegates. 

7. How you can make a public method in a MVC controller but do not want to treat it as an action method? 

8. Explain Design Pattern you have worked on. 

9. How you resolve multiple Dependency in net core. 

10. Difference between Var and Dynamic. 

What is Dependency Injection, and what problem does it solve? 

When would you use Transient vs Scoped lifetime? Give an example. 

Why are you using .NET Core? What are the benefits over .NET Framework? 

What are design principles? Explain with a real-world example where you applied them. 

What are the SOLID principles? Can you explain them with real scenarios? 

What is the Repository pattern, and what are its drawbacks? 

What is the Event-Driven pattern? 

What is the CQRS pattern? 

How does CQRS improve application performance? 

Have you used the CQRS pattern in any Web API or microservices? 

What is unmanaged code, and how do you manage it in a .NET application? 

What are Generics? 

What are Func<> and Predicate<>? 

What is cancellation token 

What are the advantages of LINQ over Entity Framework queries? 

What is the use of the Include keyword compared to Join? 

What are best practices for fetching and filtering data using LINQ? 

1. We are facing a problem the value of session variable is sometime showing and some time not on UI?(consider session is not expired) how will you approach/debug this problem. 

2. For a given Data query how will you optimize that ? have you use any tool? 

3. A output based question to check call by reference and call by value concept in C# 

1. What's your strongest area Backend/frontend? 

2. Can you Explain how will you design a API to Fetch payroll Information? 

3. A LINQ query question to fetch payroll info. 

4. Have you use any Health Check kind of feature/tool for your API? 

Tell me about yourself. 

Have you worked on Connect (RXO)? What issue did you face, and how did you resolve it? 

What challenges did you face in your recent project, and how did you resolve them? 

Explain your recent project architecture along with the technologies used. 

How do you communicate data between microservices? 

How do you implement transactions in microservices? 

Have you used the Saga pattern in microservices? 

How do you authenticate and authorize a Web API? 

If a transaction fails, how do you identify which microservice failed? 

Handling of failures in microservices 

Do you have experience with message brokers? If yes, please explain. 

How do you track error logs in your microservices? 

In GCP, how do you identify where an error was generated? 

How do you monitor a complex GCP environment? 

If the application is slowing down and the code looks fine, how would you troubleshoot? 

How have you configured your API Gateway? 

---------------

RXO:

explain your technical skills?
Explain recent Project Architecture along with technologies?
What is CQRS pattern. have you used in any web api/microservices?
Why you using .net core? what are benefits over .Net framework.?
What challenged you faced in your recent project and how to resolved?
When you will use transient and when Scoped – example
What is design principals? explain with real example where you used?
How will you communicate data in microservices?
How to Implement transaction in microservices?
have you used SAGA pattern in micro services?

 
What is advantages of linq over the entityframe work ?
What is the use 'include' key over the 'join' key ?
what is the best practice while fetching and filtering details in linq ?
Design Principals
What is Repositary pattern and drawback of the patterns ?
Do you have any exp on message brokers, if you have pls explain them ? 
What is CQRS Design pattern ?
What is Event Driven Pattern ?
 
How you track error logs in your microservice?
In GCP how you will know error is generated from where?
How you have configured you API gateway?
How you can authenticate and authorised you web API.
If transaction failed how you know which microservice failed?
Your application is slowdown and code are fine then what to do?
How do you monitor a complex GCP environment?
 
 
 
1. Tell me about your self?
2. Have you worked in connect (RXO), what is issue and how you resolve the issue?
3. What is CQRS Pattern, how it improve the performance of the application?
4. What are SOLID Principles, can you explain in really scenarios?
5. What is Dependency injection and what problem it was resolved?
6. What is LLD and HLD and unit test, how you implemented ?
7.What is the mocking?
8. What is unmanaged code and how you mange of unmanaged code application?
9. What is generics ?
10. What are Func() and Predicate()?

--------------------

-------------------------------

identify gap
discuss with Pankaj , ankit , to identify gaps
plan to cover with gaps
do mock
and prepare for interviews 

------------------------------


.Net:
explain design pattern you have worked on
how do you make a public method in MVC controller but do not want to treat it as an action method
dot net core and dot net features
why do we need to go for web api? web service vs web api
fluent assertion
what is the process to configure entity framework in mvc using the database first approach
solid principal with real example
oops principal , in detail'
compare .net core with MVC
when would you use transient and when scoped , provide example
CQRS pattrn. have you used in any web api or microservice

explain the service lifecycle with example
how do you implement authentication middleware in .net core
purpose of middleware in .net core
how do you implement logging in .net
SAGA , why we use eventstore b/w eventbus and RabbitMQ or servicebus
what CQRS pattern with multiple database
cqrs pattern. why do we use cqrs pattern with single database
repository pattern and unit of work
for a given data query , how will you optimize that? have you use any tool
we are facing a problem the value of session variable is sometime showing and some time not on UI? (consider session is expired) how will you approach/debug
this problem
var and dynamic
have you used any health check features or tools for API
how do you resolve multiple dependencies in .net core
which .net and angular version you have used
what are the migration challenges from .net framework to .net core
how to you call a DLL in .net core project
how can you change the web api response without using content negotiation or content type
how do you log specific controller action methods
how do you create custom middleware
use of middleware
how do you implement custom exception handling 
different ways to handle exception
why do we need to use web api
what is entity framework, how is it used


did you face any .net technical challenges in your project. if so what are they
how do you implement unit of work pattern
what is thread pool. what are the benefits of synchronous and asynchronous calls

how to write left join in linq

what is minimal api. 
write a linq query to retrieve data from two tables
how do you write a raw sql query in entity framework to retrieve data
advantages and disadvantages of async and await
difference between dbcontext.update() and dbcontext.attach()


how to do synchronization in multithreading
JWT, authentication and authorization in .net, what are claims
MVC life cycle
MVC and MVP
difference between task and thread
mocking and how do you implement


what makes .net core an open source framework
what is .net core web api. how is it used


----------------------------------

C#:
Reflection in C# and how is it used
use of await using two tasks

Write a program to solve a character reprogramming program where a control device has four buttons: U , D , L , R. Determine the maximum number of 
deletions required to reach the destination.
Explain when we need an abstract class and when we need interface with a real example
what is the difference between task.WhenAny and task.WhenAll

What is underlying mechanism behind dictionary in c#
when should you choose a list versus a dictionary in c# and why

why are generic collections better than normal collection in c#
what is async/await in c#, how does it work , how do you use it
difference between method overloading and method overriding. how do they relate to polymorphism
inheritance
fluent assertions and how is it used in unit testing
difference between featurecontext and scenariocontext in specflow
what are delegates in c#. how do you handle exceptions in multicast delegate
how do you sort a list of intergers in c#
why is the interface segregation principal important and how did you apply it in your last project
how do you sort a list of intergers in asending order
write a linq query to fetch payroll information
explain the concept of call by reference and call by value with an output based example
difference between var and dynamic
what is the purpose of async and await? how do you combine more than two async calls
can garbage collector clean unmanaged code
what is GC0,1,2
managed code and unmanaged code
which design pattern you have worked, explain one briefly
how do you await two tasks efficiently in c#


Given a base class with 'public virtual int xyz()' and a derived class overriding with 'public override string xyz()' , what happen and what would
'ref.xyz()' return for different refernces
boxing and unboxing
what is the using statement and when should you use it
what are oops core concept. nd why they useful
deferred execution and immediate execution
first() and firstordefault()
when does a static class initialize in c#

what are design patterns in c#. 
explain dependency injection in detail. how is it implemented in angular and .net core . why it is used
why do we use interface in c#
how do you call a parent class method using a child class object
types of polymorphism. explain in detail
how do async and await work in multithreading in c#
what is linq and how is it used in c#
how can you write a c# program to find the number of occurences of characters in string




dictionary : it is a collection that stores data as key-value pairs.
it belongs to systems.collections.generic namespace

Dictionary<TKey, TValue> dictionaryName =
    new Dictionary<TKey, TValue>();

C# Dictionary is implemented using a hash table with separate chaining, where keys are hashed to buckets and collisions are handled via entry chains using array indices
-------------------------

generic collection

------------------------

call by value , call by reference
value type, reference type
pass by value, pass by reference
ref and out

----------------------


liskov principal
interaface segregation
encapsulation
abstraction
abstract class and interface
async await
thread & task
dependency injection
repository pattern
static and sealed
var and dynamic
cache
filters
generics
api gateway
monolithic and microservices
run , use and map
clean architecture
difference between asp.net and asp.net core
request delegates
on which version you have worked
anagrams
count of occurance of alphabets in string


-----------------------

oops
solid principal
thread task
di
repository pattern
api gateway

--------------------

delegates are the type safe function pointer in c# that holds the reference to the method. it is based on callbacks and event handling.
They are used to pass methods as a parameter, store them , combine them and call them dynamically.

multicast delegates - that holds the reference to multiple methods. 

---------------

singleton design pattern:

public class singleton
{
private static singleton _instance;

private singleton(){}

public static singleton GetInstance()
{
if(instance==null)
{
_instance=new singleton()
}
return _instance
}

public void showmessage()
{
console.writeline("hello")
}

}

-----------------

public class Employee
{
 
public void GetEmployee(){
Console.Writeline("Employee List");
}
 
}
 
public class Order : Employee
{
 
public void GetOrder(){
Console.Writeline("Employee Order List");
}
}
 
 
Order obj = new Employee();
Console.Writeline(obj.GetOrder());

output : 

-------------

"ate", "eat", "tea", "run"



string s1="ate"
string s2="eat"
string s3="tea"
string s4="run"


bool isanagram = s1.length==s2.length && s2.length==s3.length && s3.length==s4.length && s4.length==s1.length 
&& 
s1.tolower().orderby(s=>s)==s2.tolower().orderby(s=>s) && s2.tolower().orderby(s=>s)==s3.tolower().orderby(s=>s) && 

---------

Write a program to count occurrence of each character in a string
string input = "IRISSOFTWARE"


-------

string input = "IRISSOFTWARE"
var dict = new Dictionary<char,int>

foreach(var d in input.replace(" "))
{
  if(dict.containskey(d))
{
  
}
}

-------------------------------

1. difference between c# and .net:
c# - it is object oriented programming language which runs on .net framework.
.net - it is framework for building and running application and software.

2. oops:
object oriented programming language. it is a way to create software around objects.
It provides a clean and clear structure for software's and web applications.

Advantages of oops:
1. reuse of code using inheritance
2. flexibility of code using polymorphism
3. secure application by using encapsulation
4. easily scalable from small to large applications
5. Easier troubleshooting of code because of modularity

Limitations of OOPS:
1. it is not suitable for small applications

class and objects:
class: it is a blueprint for creating of objects. it defines properites and methods an object can have.
objects: it is an instance of class. it provides real world entities created from class.

A class can not do anything by itself. it needs objects.
First class member is constructor whose name is same as that of the class name.
second class member is field. it is variable of any type.
third class member is property. it helps in read and write of private field
fourth class member is method. is a code block that contains series of  statement. it also contains the business logic.

Types of class :
abstract class , static class , sealed class , partial class

Is it possible to prevent object creation of a class in c#:
object creation of a class can be prevented by : we can not create the objects of below mentioned class
abstract class , static class , private class


property:

--------------------------



Dot Net Theoretical Questions : 

 
media type formatters, 

content negotiation



composition - classes where one class contains the object of another to use the functionality


linq
  

 

1. Explain Dependency Injection. 

2. What are SOLID Principal Explain L in this. 

3. Explain Garbage collector. 

4. How you do logging. 

5. Explain Service Lifecycle in Dot net Core(Transient, Scoped and Singleton) give practical example of each where they are used. 

6. What are delegates. 

7. How you can make a public method in a MVC controller but do not want to treat it as an action method? 

8. Explain Design Pattern you have worked on. 

9. How you resolve multiple Dependency in net core. 

10. Difference between Var and Dynamic. 

 

Dot Net Practical Questions : 

1. We are facing a problem the value of session variable is sometime showing and some time not on UI?(consider session is not expired) how will you approach/debug this problem. 

2. For a given Data query how will you optimize that ? have you use any tool? 

3. A output based question to check call by reference and call by value concept in C# 

 

Angular 

1. What is pipe? have you used any custom pipe if so please explain. 

2. What is NgModule have you created any? 

3. Is Function overloading possible in JavaScript and Typescript 

4. Why to use Typescript ? 

=========================================================== 

Round 2:  

1. What's your strongest area Backend/frontend? 

2. Can you Explain how will you design a API to Fetch payroll Information? 

3. A LINQ query question to fetch payroll info. 

4. Have you use any Health Check kind of feature/tool for your API? 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

General & Experience 

Tell me about yourself. 

Have you worked on Connect (RXO)? What issue did you face, and how did you resolve it? 

What challenges did you face in your recent project, and how did you resolve them? 

Explain your recent project architecture along with the technologies used. 

 

Design Principles & Patterns 

What are design principles? Explain with a real-world example where you applied them. 

What are the SOLID principles? Can you explain them with real scenarios? 

What is the Repository pattern, and what are its drawbacks? 

What is the Event-Driven pattern? 

What is the CQRS pattern? 

How does CQRS improve application performance? 

Have you used the CQRS pattern in any Web API or microservices? 

 

Architecture (LLD, HLD, Testing) 

What is HLD and LLD? 

What is unit testing, and how have you implemented it? 

What is mocking? 

 

Dependency Injection & .NET 

What is Dependency Injection, and what problem does it solve? 

When would you use Transient vs Scoped lifetime? Give an example. 

Why are you using .NET Core? What are the benefits over .NET Framework? 

 

Language & Framework Concepts 

What is unmanaged code, and how do you manage it in a .NET application? 

What are Generics? 

What are Func<> and Predicate<>? 

What is cancellation token 

 

LINQ & Entity Framework 

What are the advantages of LINQ over Entity Framework queries? 

What is the use of the Include keyword compared to Join? 

What are best practices for fetching and filtering data using LINQ? 

 

Microservices 

How do you communicate data between microservices? 

How do you implement transactions in microservices? 

Have you used the Saga pattern in microservices? 

How do you authenticate and authorize a Web API? 

If a transaction fails, how do you identify which microservice failed? 

Handling of failures in microservices 

 

Messaging & Integration 

Do you have experience with message brokers? If yes, please explain. 

 

Monitoring, Logging & Performance 

How do you track error logs in your microservices? 

In GCP, how do you identify where an error was generated? 

How do you monitor a complex GCP environment? 

If the application is slowing down and the code looks fine, how would you troubleshoot? 

 

API Gateway 

How have you configured your API Gateway? 

 

Question Asked as of 27-April from Vinati and Manushree 

 

Vinnati - 

Angular element 

Angular web components 

Services 

Project architecture 

Manushree 

Angular Architecture 

Components communication 

Life cycle hooks 

Bindings 

Backend 

OOPS concepts 

Asynchronous programming 

Output question - walk through the code execution. 

 

 -------------------------

c#, .net core , oops , microservices , design pattern , cqrs





	